V14.1: TinyMCE plugins (#6183)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 14/umbraco-cms/fundamentals/backoffice/property-editors/built-in-umbraco-property-editors/rich-text-editor/rte-plugins.md

### Premium Plugins

TinyMCE also has a number of [premium plugins](https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/plugins/#premium-plugins) available. These plugins are only available for [paid TinyMCE subscriptions](https://www.tiny.cloud/pricing/). They can be added to the rich text editor by [adding a bit of configuration](#adding-a-premium-plugin).

## Adding a Plugin

To enable plugins in the rich text editor, you need to add an extension type called `tinyMcePlugin` in a manifest file. The manifest file is a JSON file that describes the plugin and how it should be loaded. You can add a plugin such as the open source [Word Count Plugin](https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/wordcount/) to the rich text editor. You can also define your own custom plugin to extend the functionality of the editor. This way you can add custom buttons, dialogs, or other features to the editor.

{% hint style="info" %}

> The manifest file should be placed in a folder in `App_Plugins/{YourPackageName}`, with the name `umbraco-package.json`. Read more about [package manifests](../../../../../extending/property-editors/package-manifest.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The manifest file should be placed in a folder in `App_Plugins/{YourPackageName}`, with the name `umbraco-package.json`. Learn how to use the [package manifests](../../../../../extending/property-editors/package-manifest.md).
```

<figure><img src="images/my-rte-button-editor.jpg" alt="Rich text editor showing a custom button"><figcaption><p>The text "Hello World!" shows up after clicking the button</p></figcaption></figure>

> **Add a manifest file**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.**Add a manifest file**
```

First we create an `umbraco-package.json` file which will contain the manifest for the plugin. This adds a button to the toolbar in the rich text editor, which editors can enable on the Data Type. We are also letting the rich text editor know it should load the plugin from the `plugin.js` file.

{% code title="App_Plugins/MyRtePlugin/umbraco-package.json" lineNumbers="true" %}

```json
{
    "name": "My TinyMCE Plugin",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "extensions": [
        {
            "type": "tinyMcePlugin",
            "alias": "myrteplugin",
            "name": "My TinyMCE Plugin",
            "js": "/App_Plugins/MyRtePlugin/plugin.js",
            "meta": {
                "toolbar": [
                    {
                        "alias": "myrtebutton",
                        "label": "My RTE Button",
                        "icon": "code-sample"
                    }
                ]
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

{% endcode %}

> **Add the plugin.js file**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.**Add the plugin.js file**
```

<figure><img src="images/my-rte-button.jpg" alt="Rich text editor configuration showing available options"><figcaption><p>Enable the button in the rich text editor configuration</p></figcaption></figure>

You can go to any Document Type that uses the rich text editor and click the button to insert the text `Hello World!` after.

You have full access to the `tinymce` editor object, so you can create any custom functionality you need.

### Learn more

* [TinyMCE documentation](https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/)
* [TinyMCE tutorial: Creating a plugin](https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/latest/creating-a-plugin/)

## Adding a premium plugin

To add a premium plugin, you need to add the plugin name to the `plugins` array in the `config` object of a `tinyMcePlugin` extension. You also need to add a JavaScript module that can load up the cloud-hosted TinyMCE premium plugins bundle.

{% hint style="info" %}
Premium plugins require a subscription at [TinyMCE Cloud](https://www.tiny.cloud/). You can go there and sign up for a free trial. You will get a Cloud API key that you can use to try out the premium plugins.
{% endhint %}

> **Declaring the plugin**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.**Declaring the plugin**
```

Let us first add the [powerpaste](https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/introduction-to-powerpaste/) plugin to the rich text editor. This plugin is a premium plugin that helps you paste content from Word documents and other sources. We will configure the plugin to allow local images and clean the HTML when pasting Word documents.

{% code title="App_Plugins/MyRtePlugin/umbraco-package.json" lineNumbers="true" %}

```json
{
    "name": "My TinyMCE Plugin",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "extensions": [
        {
            "type": "tinyMcePlugin",
            "alias": "mytinymceplugin",
            "name": "My TinyMCE Plugin",
            "js": "/App_Plugins/MyRtePlugin/plugin.js",
            "meta": {
                "config": {
                    "plugins": ["powerpaste"],
                    "powerpaste_allow_local_images": "true",
                    "powerpaste_word_import": "clean"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

{% endcode %}

> **Creating the plugin.js file**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.**Creating the plugin.js file**
```
